This is a transcript of the Pipe Strip Analysis Video (PSAV) as it "should" be.
Many imperfections in Barrymore's speech are ignored (e.g. stuttering over the
word "epistemological").

This transcript heavily abuses commas, and mainly uses them to indicate pauses
in Barrymore's speech pattern. To simplify the formatting, the use of
semicolons, em dashes, and parantheses is limitted, with colons being used
sparingly.

================================================================================

07/27/1978

Jim Davis tribute set to the entire original motion picture score of "Kundun" by
Philip Glass featuring the philosophical musings of John Blyth Barrymore.

Lasagna Cat
Tributes to Jim Davis

Philip Glass
Kundun: The Motion Picture Soundtrack

[1:19](https://youtu.be/NAh9oLs67Cw?t=1m19s)
When I was 18, 18 years old, I saw for the first time in my life, I saw a vision
of clarity. I saw a comic strip, a 3-panel comic strip, that, though simple as
it seemed, changed me. Changed my being. Changed who I am. Made me who I am.
Enlightened me.

[1:45](https://youtu.be/NAh9oLs67Cw?t=1m45s)
The strip: Garfield. The comic strip was new, no more than maybe a month and a
half since inception, since coming into existence. And there it was before me in
print, I saw it. A comic strip. What was it called? Garfield.

[2:03](https://youtu.be/NAh9oLs67Cw?t=2m03s)
The story here is of a man, a plain man. He is Jon, but he is more than that. I
will get to this later, but first let us just say that he is Jon, a plain man.
And then there is a cat: Garfield. This is the nature of the world here. When I
see the world, the, the, politics, the future, the, the satellites in space, and
the people who put them there. You can look at everything as a man and a cat.
Two beings, in harmony, and at war.

[2:34](https://youtu.be/NAh9oLs67Cw?t=2m34s)
So this strip I saw about this man, Jon, and the cat, Garfield, you see, yes
hmmm, it, it is about everything. This little comic is, oh, lo' and behold not
so little anymore.

[2:50](https://youtu.be/NAh9oLs67Cw?t=2m50s)
So yes, when I was 18, I saw this comic. And it hit me all at once, it's, it's
power. I clipped it and every day I looked at it and I said, "Okay, let me look
at this here. What is this doing to me. Why is this so powerful?" Jon Arbuckle,
he sits here, legs crossed, comfortable in his home, and he reads his newspaper.
The news of the world, perhaps. And then he extends his fingers, lightly,
delicately, he taps his fingers on an end table and he feels for something. What
is it? It is something he needs, but it is not there.

[2:32](https://youtu.be/NAh9oLs67Cw?t=2m32s)
Then he looks up, slightly cockeyed, and he thinks. His newspaper in his lap
now, and he thinks this: "Now where could my pipe be?" This, I always come to
this, because I was a young man. I'm older now, and I still don't have the
secrets, the answers, so this question still rings true. Jon looks up and he
thinks, "Now where could my pipe be?" And then it happens, you see it, you see,
it's almost like divine intervention. Suddenly, it is there, and it overpowers
you! A cat is smoking a pipe.

[WIP]
