Jim Davis tribute set to the entire original motion picture score of "Kundun" by
Philip Glass featuring the philosophical musings of John Blyth Barrymore.

# 07/27/1978

"Now where could my pipe be?"

"GARFIELD!!"

## Lasagna Cat

### Tributes to Jim Davis

#### Philip Glass

#### Kundun: The Motion Picture Soundtrack

[1:19](https://youtu.be/NAh9oLs67Cw?t=1m19s)
When I was eighteen, eighteen years old, I saw for the first time in my life, I
saw a vision of clarity. I saw a comic strip, a three-panel comic strip, that,
though simple as it seemed, changed me. Changed my being. Changed who I am. Made
me who I am.  Enlightened me.

[1:45](https://youtu.be/NAh9oLs67Cw?t=1m45s)
The strip, Garfield. The comic strip was new, no more than maybe a month and a
half since inception, since coming into existence. And there it was before me in
print, I saw it. A comic strip. What was it called? Garfield.

[2:03](https://youtu.be/NAh9oLs67Cw?t=2m03s)
The story here is of a man, a plain man. He is Jon, but he is more than that. I
will get to this later, but first let us just say that he is Jon, a plain man.
And then there is a cat, Garfield. This is the nature of the world here. When I
see the world, the, the, politics, the future, the, the satellites in space, and
the people who put them there. You can look at everything as a man and a cat.
Two beings, in harmony, and at war.

[2:34](https://youtu.be/NAh9oLs67Cw?t=2m34s)
So this strip I saw about this man, Jon, and the cat, Garfield, you see, yes
hmmm, it, it is about everything. This little comic is, oh, lo' and behold not
so little anymore.

[2:50](https://youtu.be/NAh9oLs67Cw?t=2m50s)
So yes, when I was eighteen, I saw this comic. And it hit me all at once, it's,
it's power. I clipped it and every day I looked at it and I said, "Okay, let me
look at this here. What is this doing to me. Why is this so powerful?" Jon
Arbuckle, he sits here, legs crossed, comfortable in his home, and he reads his
newspaper.  The news of the world, perhaps. And then he extends his fingers,
lightly, delicately, he taps his fingers on an end table and he feels for
something. What is it? It is something he needs, but it is not there.

[2:32](https://youtu.be/NAh9oLs67Cw?t=2m32s)
Then he looks up, slightly cockeyed, and he thinks. His newspaper in his lap
now, and he thinks this, "Now where could my pipe be?" This, I always come to
this, because I was a young man. I'm older now, and I still don't have the
secrets, the answers, so this question still rings true. Jon looks up and he
thinks, "Now where could my pipe be?" And then it happens, you see it, you see,
it's almost like divine intervention. Suddenly, it is there, and it overpowers
you! A cat is smoking a pipe. It is the man's pipe, it's Jon's pipe. But the
cat, this cat Garfield is smoking the pipe.

And from afar, and from someplace near, but not clear. Near, but not clear. The
man calls out. Jon calls out. He is shocked. "Garfield!" he shouts. Garfield,
the cat's name.

But, let's take a step back. Let us examine this from all sides, all
perspectives. And when I first came across this comic strip, I was at my
father's house. The newspaper had arrived and I picked it up for him, and
brought it inside. I organized his sections for him and, yes, the comic strip
section fell out from somewhere in the middle. Landed on the kitchen floor. I
picked up the paper pages and saw up somewhere near the top of this strip. Just
like Jon, I too was wearing an aquamarine shirt. So I thought, "Ah, interesting.
I'll have to see to this later."

I snipped out the little comic and held onto it. Five days later I reexamined,
and it gripped me. I needed to find out more about this. The information I had
was minimal, but enough. An orange cat named Garfield. Okay, that seemed to be
the linchpin of this whole operation. Yes, another clue. A signature in the
bottom right corner. A man's name, Jim Davis. Yes, I am on to it for sure.

So, one, Garfield, orange cat. And two, Jim Davis, the creator of this cat. And
that curiously plain man. I did not know at the time that this name was Jon. The
strip, you see, had no mention of this man's name, and I'd never seen it before.
But I had these clues. Jim Davis. Garfield. And then I saw more. I spotted the
tiny copyright mark in the upper left corner. Copyright 1978 to, what is this,
copyright belongs to a PAWS, INC.

I used the local library and mail services to track down the information I was
looking for. Jim Davis, a cartoonist, created a comic strip about a cat,
Garfield. And a man, Jon Arbuckle. Well from that point on I made sure I read
the Garfield comic strips, but as I read each one, as each day passed, the
strips seemed to resonate with me less and less.

I sent letters to PAWS, INC. Long letters. Pages upon pages, asking if Mr. Jim
Davis could somehow publish just the one comic over and over again. It would be
meditative, I wrote. The strength of that. Could you imagine!

But, no response.

The strips lost their power, and eventually I stopped reading, but, I did not
want my perceptions diluted so I vowed to read The Pipe Strip over and over
again. That is what I call it. The Pipe Strip.

The Pipe Strip.

Everything about it is perfect. I can only describe it as a miracle of creation.
Something came together. The elements aligned. It is like the comets, the cosmic
orchestra that, is up there over your head. The immense, enormous void is
working all for one thing, to tell you one thing. Gas and rock and purity and,
nothing. I will say this. When I see The Pipe Strip, and I mean every time I
look at the lines, the colors, the shapes that make up the three-panel comic, I
see perfection.

Do I find perfection in many things? Some things, I would say. Some things are
perfect. And this is one of them.

I can look at the little tuft of hair on Jon Arbuckle's head. It is the perfect
shade. The purple pipe in Garfield's mouth. How could a mere mortal even make
this?

I have a theory, about Jim Davis. After copious research, and yes, of course,
now we have the internet, and this information is all readily available, but,
Jim Davis. He used his life experiences to influence his comic. Like I mentioned
before, none of them seemed to have the weight of the pipe strip. But you have
to wonder about the man who was able to even just once create the form. A
literally flawless execution of art. Brilliance, just isn't a word.

I think there is a spiritual element at work.

I have seen my share of bad times, and, when you have something, well, it's
just, emotions and neurons in your brain, but, something tells you that it's the
truth. Truth's radiant light. Garfield the cat?

Neurons in my brain, it's, it's harmony you see. Jon and Garfield. It's truly
harmony, like a continuous, looping, everlasting harmony. The lavender chair,
the brown end table, the salmon colored wall, the forest green carpet, and
Garfield is hunched, perched, perhaps with a pipe stuck firmly between his
jowls. His tail curls around.

It's more than shapes, too, because, I, okay, stay with me. I have done this
experiment several times. You take the strip. You trace only the basic elements.
You can do anything! You can simplify the shapes down to just blobs, just
outlines, but it still makes sense. You can replace the blobs with magazine
cutouts of other things. Replace Jon Arbuckle with a car parked in a driveway
sideways. Cut that out of a magazine. Stick it in. Replace him there in the
second panel with a, a food processor. Okay, and then we put a picture of the
planet in the third panel over Garfield.

It still works.

These are universal proportions. I don't know how best to explain why it works.
I have studied The Pipe Strip and analyzed Jon and Garfield's proportions
against several universal mathematical constants: e, pi, the golden ratio, the
Feigenbaum constants, and so on. And it's surprising, scary even, how things
align.

You can take just tiny pieces of The Pipe Strip, for instance, take Jon's elbow
in the second panel. Take that and project that over Jon's entire shape in the
second panel and you'll see a near perfect Fibonacci sequence emerge. It's eerie
to me. It makes you wonder if you're in the presence of a deity, if there is
some larger hand at work.

There is no doubt in my mind that Jim Davis is a smart man. Jim Davis is capable
of anything, to me. He is remarkable, but this is so far beyond that. I think we
might see that this work of art is revered and respected in years to come. Jim
Davis is possibly a new master of the craft, a, a genius of the eye. They very
well may say the same things about Jim Davis in five hundred years that we say
about the great philosophical and artistic masters from centuries ago.

Jim Davis is a modern-day Socrates, or da Vinci, mixing both striking visual
beauty with classical, daring, unheard of intellect. Look, he combines these
things to make profoundly simple expressions.

This strip is his masterpiece. The Pipe Strip is his masterpiece. And it is a
masterpiece and a marvel.

I often look at Garfield's particular pose in this strip. He is poised and
statuesque, and his cat stare is reminiscent of the fiery gazes often found in
religous iconography. But still his eyes are playful, lying somewhere between
the solemn father's expression in Rembrandt's "Return of the Prodigal Son," and
the coy smirk of da Vinci's "St. John the Baptist." His ears stick up,
signifying a peaked readiness. It's as if he could at any moment pounce. He is,
after all, a close relative and descendent of the mighty jungle cats of Africa
that could leap after prey.

You can see the power drawn into Garfield's hindquarters, powerful haunches
indeed.

The third panel. Now I'm just saying this now. This, this is just coming to me
now. The third panel of The Pipe Strip is essentially a microcosm for the entire
strip itself. All the power dynamics, the struggle for superiority, right? Who
has the pipe? Where is the pipe? All of that is drawn, built, layered into
Garfield's iconic pose here.

You can see it in the curl of his tail. Garfield's ear whiskers stick up on end.
The smoke billows upward, drawing the eye upward, increasing scope. I'm just
amazed, really, that after thirty-three years of reading and analyzing the same
comic strip, I'm able to find new dimensions. It's a testament to the work.

For six years I delved into tobacco research, because, can a cat smoke? This is
a metaphyscial question. Yes, can any cat smoke? Do we know? Can just Garfield
smoke? The research says no. Nicotine poisoning can kill animals, especially
household pets. All it takes is the nicotine found in as little as a single
cigarette. Surely Jon's pipe holds a substantial amount of tobacco, and it is
true that pets living in the homes of smokers are nearly twenty five percent
more likely to develop some form of cancer, most likely due to secondhand smoke.

But these are facts of smoking and its tolls on our world, but after visiting
two tobacco processing plants in Virginia, and the Philip Morris cigarette
manufacturing facility, I came no closer to cracking the meaning.

I was looking for any insight. A detective of a homicide case has to look at
every angle. So I'm always taking apart The Pipe Strip. I have focused on every
minutia, every detail of this strip. Jon Arbuckle's clothing. I have replicas. I
am an expert in textiles, so you see this smoking thing was a hang-up for me.

What was the statement here? Until, this is key. This is the breakthrough. The
pipe is not a pipe, really. Obviously there is symbolism at work here. I saw
that from the beginning, and I looked at the literal aspects of the strip to
gain insight into the metaphors at play.

I worked at a newspaper printing press for eighteen months in the late 1980s. I
was learning the literal to inform the gestural. The subliteral. The in between.
Jon reading his newspaper means so much more than just Jon reading the
newspaper. But how could you ever hope to decipher the puzzle without knowing
everything there is to know about newspapers?

Okay. For example, Jon holds his paper up with his left hand, thumb gripping the
interior. I learned that this particular grip here is the newspaper grip of
nineteenth century aristocrats, and this aristocrat grip was a point of
contention that influenced the decision to move forward with prohibition in the
United States in the early twentieth century.

So Jon's hand position is much more than that. It is, it is a comment on class
war and the resulting reactionary culture. But I didn't know about the
aristocratic newspaper grip until I came across some microfiche archives at the
printing press. It's about information. You have to take it apart.

And the breakthrough on the smoking cat came late, just eight years ago,
actually. "Smoking cat" is an industry term. It's what the smoking industry
calls a tattle-tale teenager who tells on his friends after they've all tried
smoking for the first time, and is actually a foreign translation, a
bastardization of the term "smoking rat," but the phrase was confused when
secret documents went back and forth between China and America.

These documents are still secret, and the only reason I know about the term is
because I know a man, my friend, uh, let's call him Timothy. Yeah, yes it's a
fake name for his protection. Timothy worked for Philip Morris for sixteen
years. He had seen the documents. When he told me, it was an "aha!" moment. And
he said, "But how? How could this cartoonist, Jim Davis, know about this obscure
term from the mid-seventies used exclusively by a few cigarette companies.

This is still a mystery to me, but I connect the dots by noting Jim Davis'
childhood experiences on a farm. He must have seen something. What could it be?

Timothy went on to tell me that there was one particular smoking cat. A boy
from, yes, Indiana. A boy named Ernie Barguckle, who became a thorn in the side
of the tobacco companies for a couple years. He did more than tattle to his
parents. He and his family took legal action, and they eventually received a
huge settlement payout.

But that name is too similar. Ernie Barguckle. Jon Arbuckle. Jim Davis must have
used this, but there's more here. Ernie Barguckle spent nearly half of that
settlement money on experimental medical procedures to cure his... impotence. He
was impotent.

So, he was a smoking cat with a, a, a metaphorical pipe that did not work. Are
you starting to see the layers here? This is exciting stuff! You start to get a
whole picture here and it informs the work. It's, it's just remarkable. Jim
Davis took these raw ideas, these pieces, and transformed them into smart social
commentary that is also rasvishingly beautiful.

I have cried. I have cried. I have cried. I have cried, cried over this piece.
It just gets into my soul. I've tried to explain this to people. I have the
newspaper articles about Ernie Barguckle. People have fought me on this. They
don't see it, or they are close-minded. How could a comic strip about a cat
smoking a pipe mean any more than that?

But it is more, and when I feel spiritual or start to think existentially, I
still see this comic. Here is something from 1981 that I wrote in thinking about
the implications of this strip. This is just an excerpt here. There is more
before and after but this part is the essence to me. If a comic about a cat
smoking a pipe can be the only thing in the universe, them maybe this is the
strongest evidence for that.

[John Blyth Barrymore pulls a white sheet of paper out from his jacket's left
inner breast pocket, frantically unfolds it, firmly grips it, and begins reading
from it.]

Many of you say, "Oh, but I am not blind. I have never been blind," ... But when
you truly see you will understand just how truly blind you once were to even
think it right to say you were __not__ blind! What does as blind man see??

- Blackness
- Darkness
- Blankness
- Black Darkness
- Dark Blankness

--> The ABSENCE OF THINGS

__Quite literally__-> __No__ thing... No things. NOTHING... Nothings. So, you see
nothing, and I bring you into the light. __A cat has your pipe__. You've been
blind.

DO YOU UNDERSTAND THIS?

\*The cat has your pipe.

You can't fully immerse yourself. You don't have the light! You don't have the
radiance, the radical light, the radically radiant life of truth, and truth's
belonging love and nature of light and loving truthful radiance. So don't be
bold and make bold statements. I know of you. The cat has your pipe. THE. CAT.
HAS. YOUR. PIPE.

Remember that.

[Barrymore briskly folds up the sheet of paper and replaces it snugly inside
his breast pocket.]

That writing, well, it's kind of rough. Kind of an early eighties feel, and I
see that, but I'm still, I'm still proud of it.

Sometimes I imagine that it is the editorial column in the newspaper Jon
Arbuckle is reading. It's an exercise in recursion. It's like a vortex opens up.
It's like you hold two mirrors up to each other. One is reality and the other is
a cartoon strip.

Let's see. Oh yes, I must bring this up, because I think surely Jim Davis is
again speaking on multiple levels by including the details set before us in the
comic. Notice the glimpse of Jon Arbuckle's foot in the first panel. The size of
his shoe would indicate that maybe the man just has small feet, but a deeper
investigation takes us to the foot binding rituals of certain Asian cultures.
Inflicted usually upon women for the desire of men, this process was
incredibly painful and crippling. Aha! Mr. Davis is here presenting us with a
man, or rather, man who engages in foot binding. A body modification for women,
on top of being without his pipe, or impotent. This is a man facing extreme
inner turmoil. The panels tell that story subconsciously.

Notic the background wall shading in the first panel points inward toward Jon in
the second panel. The sharp tapered end of the purple pipe in the third frame
also points at Jon in the second panel. Inward. The eye is drawn to the center
panel. You can connect these points and draw a triangle across the panels, and
this triangle will align with the reoriented points of Jon's collar. This, this
is majestic artwork! And to uncover this hidden order is bliss like I've never
known. Comfort in an empty world.

I can't help but read the thought bubble again and again, "Now where could my
pipe be?"

"Now where could my pipe be?"

It is a profound question. Why am I here? What is my purpose? It is reflection
and self-examination here. It is facing the dust, the misery of a cold, careless
universe. You can feel the weight of it. Now where could my pipe be?

One imagines the author, Jim Davis, nearly teetering on the edge of insanity.
His rationality, his lucidity hovering over the void, and he seeks the truth.
You can see it in the line quality of the drawings. The thoughtful, controlled
outlines mixed with the occasional chaotic struggles that lurk in the shadows
and Garfield's dark stripes.

It's almost as if Garfield is chaos himself. Yes, he is the embodiment of chaos,
disorder, hatred, fear, thievery, death, destruction, desolation. These are the
things Garfield represents. He stole the pipe! He sits with his back to Jon,
Garfield. Garfield, this chaos cat Garfield has turned his back on everything,
everyone!

One recalls the great existential forces in literature: Camus' Meursault,
Kafka's Gregor Samsa, or Sartre's Antoine Roquentin. Garfield the cat sees the
hopelessness of life, which, ah ha, yes, this is why Jim Davis has chosen
smoking. It represents a recklessness, a, a disregard for what some would define
as the beauty of life.

Garfield may die from the nicotine. He may not. He defies life and he sits
defiant, saying nothing, but looking as if he could say, "Then let me die. It
does not matter. It does not matter."

And we are faced with this. Could Jon behave the same? Is Jon the glimmer of
hope? He seems to be unsure. Again his question, "Now where could my pipe be?"
indicates that he is wrestling with his own existence. The center panel centers
the issue, and again this harkens to many of the great religious works of art.

I'm talking about The Pipe Strip in relation to religion. It's, it's interesting
to assign the roles of God and Anti-God, or as many know him to be, the Devil.
Or on a much larger scale, simply the forces of good and evil. Garfield, the
theif cat, evil and malicious. He is the Devil, placed to the right. And note
the two forms of Jon. The Jon on the left, still innocent, still draped in the
delight of the lack of knowledge. He is the humans in the Garden of Eden. He
feels for his pipe, but he has yet to eat from the tree.

And Garfield, the sinister serpent. And notice, notice how Jim Davis has framed
this. The center Jon is locked in a struggle between his innocence and knowledge
of the truth, knowledge of the existence of evil. It is stunning. The great
struggle, the struggle that transcends time.

Jim Davis floats over all of this as creator. A god of sorts, in his own right,
and he presents this cautionary message to us all. It is as if he is speaking
from high, and he is saying unto our awaiting ears, "Where will you be when the
cat reveals himself?"

I can tell you where you'll be.

You will have a choice. You can face endless suffering and eternal misery. You
can forced and beaten down with barbarians that claw at each other just for a
view of salvation. They'll tear your eyeballs out and rip your gizzards from end
to end. They worship this cat, this false idol, this evil, horrible cat. Do not
be seduced by the cat and the pipe!

Garfield, thy name is a mark of the demons of hell. Something like this, and to
those listening it is a stark reminder to follow the path of the first panel
Jon.

1. Be humble.
2. Be grateful.
3. Honor the law,
4. And honor thyself.
5. Be true, and
6. Be good, and no harm will come to you.
7. Pray for salvation, and it will be granted unto you.
8. Be like Jon Arbuckle as he lowers his head.
9. Be like Jon Arbuckle as he lowers his paper,
10. As he turns his head.
11. Bow with Jon Arbuckle,
12. And praise unto the creator, Jim Davis,
13. And banish demon Garfield from your life.

So what is all this? What am I saying? Aha! What does all this mean? Why is this
one comic strip so important to me, and why do I feel the need to share this?

Obligation.

I have an obligation to you all. This is redemption. This is a belief in
redemption. The sacrifice of all the obvious trappings of this false modern
life.

Look at the simplicity in this strip, in The Pipe Strip. Look at the simple
clothes Jon wears. Look at his simple, basic furniture. No adornments on the
wall. Even the very pipe his cat, Garfield, stole. It is a plain, modest pipe.

And I have adapted this way of life. It speaks to me. In our times, well, you
don't need me to point out the hyperbole of our times. You have children being
born eight or nine at a time. You have more money spent on a single Hollywood
movie than some nations can spend feeding their starving people.

Torture.

Distrust.

Look around you. It's overwhelming. What can you contribute?

And every day I look in the mirror, and I hold this comic up to the mirror, and
I look into the mirror and at this little comic strip.

Be humble.

Be thankful.

It is a reminder.

Be respectful.

You are a statue.

You are fragile.

When you break, when you shatter, where will those pieces go? Ask, ask, ask, ask
this question. Will you ask? Humankind is only as great as you. You, the
individual. It begins and ends with you. You must treat this expedition, this
search, this life with a reverence and intensity found only in smallest sticks,
the littlest leaf, the tiniest stone, the most miniscule grain of sand on beach
of billions.

This is the secret. Do you want the pipe? Do you "knowant" [*sic*] to know where
the pipe has gone? You ask yourself. You ask. You ask. You ask. Now where could
my pipe be?

When I was a young man, remember now I first saw this comic when I was eighteen
years old. Ages ago, when I was youthful, vibrant. For weeks I denied that a
comic strip was having such a profound effect on me. I was much like Jon
Arbuckle in this middle panel. He says, "Now where could my pipe be?"

You can look into his eyes, his half-lowered eyes and think to yourself, "Now
surely Jon, surely you cannot be this naive. This is nothing new for you." And
if you've read more of the Garfield comic strips by Jim Davis you'd understand
what I am saying now. Garfield the cat does things like this all the time. He
will take things from Jon: food, items, anything. This is his very nature.

So you see this, and you want to say, "Jon Arbuckle, come now. You are lying to
yourself. You are lying to yourself and to all of us if you pretend to have not
have any idea where your pipe has gone. Perhaps you think you've left it
somewhere else, but, hmph, you're not so forgetful. You are lying to yourself.
Ahh yes, you are lying to yourself Jon Arbuckle. You know that Garfield has the
pipe. Somewhere deep down you know this. You don't even need to think the
question."

And that was me when I saw this strip. One week passed, and each morning I'd
open my drawer and slam it shut again. I would go to look at the comic, but I'd
pause and think, "Oh no, I, I don't need this comic. I don't need, I don't need
to look at it," but there I was lying to myself. I did need to see it. And so I
did.

It's cathartic.

You give in, and that is transition from the second panel of life to the third
panel of life. It is a simple story structure. The passage from the second act
to the third. The twilight of things. Jon gives into his suspicions. He knows
the truth. He's always known the truth. He yells out, "Garfield! Garfield!
GARFIELD!" It is like pressure from a steam valve being released. The buildup is
unbearable and then, "PSSSHHHH!" It's gone.

So it is like this. When I speak about the truth, the truth, the light, the
radiance. This, this is the kind of thing I'm talking about. This is the essence
of this brilliant work of art. The practical mixing, meeting, agreeing with the
spiritual, it is all here.

But spirituality is not an easy thing to confront. You might find yourself able
to wrap your mind around a simple math problem or a basic newspaper article, or,
but intellect is much less subjective.

What is sprituality, and how have I found spiritual peace and serenity in
Garfield?

A long time ago, after I encountered The Pipe Strip, I spent some time, as I
mentioned before, soul-searching. When something impacts you or alters your very
perception so greatly, there is a long period of confusion and recovery time.
It's as if you don't know who you are, and that can be a very scary prospect,
especially if you thought you had a good grasp on that sort of thing.

Imagine if Jim Davis did not know who he was. Would he be capable of shaping the
cultural landscape as he's done? No, no, of course he wouldn't. And how about
his characters? Jon. What if Jim Davis suddenly woke up and didn't know who Jon
was? What if he couldn't make the informed decisions to accurately depict
Garfield's personality? Because and [*sic*] he could no longer specify or
demarcate the boundaries of Garfield's behavior. What kind of comic would that
be? You see? So draw the parallel.

I saw this comic, and yes, I was disoriented, and if I didn't reconcile this
issue with myself, what kind of person would I be? Undoubtedly dire
circumstances, but remember, this was not a math problem. This was not an
article. This was not something I could just figure out, and as skeptical as I
was, I realized that faith and spirituality were avenues that required
exploring.

At first I tried long nights reading Garfield by candlelight, or aromatic
meditation sittings while thinking of Garfield, but nothing snapped. Nothing
clicked. I still felt lost.

But I kept it up. I hired a shaman and a young personal Yogi Sikh Guru, Avrahm
Dahv Singh Sahib. I pushed and pushed, determined to find myself.

And then a miracle happened.

Upon retrieving my morning paper to clip the Garfield comic, I noticed a young
girl selling lemonade two houses down. She sat occupied at her stand. She had no
customers in sight, so I approached, and saw that she was coloring. I looked at
her drawing: three rectangular boxes, a man in a blue shirt, an orange cat. I
knew what this was. Even in her crude scribbles, I knew exactly what this was.
She was drawing a Garfield comic.

I looked at her words, and saw that in her strip, Jon asked Garfield to retrieve
a newspaper. Hah, funny, since I've done just that but for myself. Garfield is
sarcastic, but agrees to it. He returns and calls Jon, "Sahib."

Jon exclaims that the paper is all chewed up, but then Garfield says, and I
quote, "Sahib asks fish, paper is wet. Sahib asks cat, paper is holey."

I remember the words and ran back to my house. I thought, "How odd that Sahib
shows up in the strip, and my spiritual advisor's name is Avrahm Dahv Singh
Sahib." Coincidence, surely, but nonetheless I spent the next sixteen hours
pouring through my clipped Garfield comics looking for the strip this young
girl had been coloring. I couldn't find it!

Then I eventually fell asleep right on my kitchen table. Next morning I
retrieved my paper again and I clipped the Garfield comic. The date was July 12,
1983. And there it was, The Sahib Strip in all its glory.

The girl had been drawing the next day's strip!

Well, I ran right out of my house. I, I ran back to where she was, but she was
gone, and in place of a lemonade stand was a "For Sale" sign. They'd moved out.
I rushed back to my house to call Avrahm, but, I was informed that he'd moved
away as well.

I reeled for several hours, then it all connected for me. It was meant to be.
It, it was meant to be this way. Jim Davis, Jon, Garfield. It was always meant
to be this way for me. They moved at the forefront and everything else fades
away. Everything else. The girl, the lemonade stand, Avrahm Dahv Sing Sahib, it
all existed to show me the way, and when I'd found the way, everything else
melted away.

It was a beautiful miracle.

And if **July 27, 1978**, the day I first saw The Pipe Strip, was the first day
of my life, then that day **July 12, 1983** was the second day of my life.

I've never looked back. Garfield has transformed me, and I am a man born anew
because of Garfield.

When I was in my mid-thirties, I was interviewed for a documentary. It was a
documentary on the subject of cat behavior. Now, I have had cats my whole life.
I have three cats now, and at the time of this documentary interview I had four
cats. I sat down for the interview and was joined by a veterinarian who
specialized in felines. Doctor Caroline Wilnets was her name, I believe. And the
doctor discussed color blindness in animals and how it affects their behavior.
She specifically brought up the fact that cats are red-green colorblind. They
can see colors, but they can't tell the difference between red and green.

And look at the color choice in this strip here. Garfield sits on a green floor
behind a pinkish red wall. I heard this and I immediately pulled a copy of the
comic from my wallet to show to the doctor. I moved so fast, I'm sure I nearly
scared her. I pointed at the paper and said, "L-Like this! Like this! Look, at
this here! This cat, Garfield, he's colorblind! He must be! That must be the
answer here. Like this."

As overexcited as I was, I- I managed to take in her response. She said, "Yes, a
cat in this room would have a hard time differentiating the wall from the
floor. Add to that cats known spacial confusion and you have the makings of a
CAT RAGE ROOM." Now, she informed me that this isn't exactly common knowledge
among cat owners, but a seasoned cat owner, someone particularly perceptive will
have picked up on it. So what's incredible here is not only is Garfield's
behavior symbolic of the Devil and all the evil constructs in the world, but-
but- but- but also! It is rooted in science and scientific fact.

Look at that. You cannot spell FACT without CAT. Aha! Just a little joke. Just
some wordplay, but getting back on track. And you can't spell TRACK without CAT.
Okay, I digress. I gotcha, I got you. Enough kidding around.

It is established here that Garfield is in a rage. An ultimate rage of fury and
hatred caused by colorblindness.

We know the "what." We know the "why." But let us examine the "how." The "how"
of his rage is particularly interesting here. We've looked at his posture and
called it powerful, in control, statuesque, *et cetera*, *et cetera*. Composed
rage. It's peculiar, and I've taked to a number of psychologists and
psychiatrists, and even a couple anger management therapists about this concept.
Could we see the same kind of behavior in a human? Is Garfield representative of
something more specific than just chaos and rage?

Deciphering this is going to take some perseverance, for sure. The psychologists
pointed to a phenomenon in humans, and yes I believe one of the anger management
counselors brought it up as well. The idea the people oftentimes will bottle
their rage.

Garfield the cat here, well, he could be bottling his anger inside, shoving it
deep into his cat gut to ignore and deal with at a later time. Ehhh, well no,
that's not exactly right. Garfield has already acted out. He's already stolen
the pipe. He's smoking the pipe. He's already dealt with his anger. He's already
lashed out, so psychologically, what is going on here? What is this cat doing
and how does it impact his owner, Jon Arbuckle, psychologically?

Well Garfield is angry. He is acting on his anger, but is this passive anger or
aggressive anger? Passive. It is passive because if Garfield has a problem with
Jon specifically, he's choosing a passive way of dealing with that problem. He
has not confronted Jon and said, "Jon I have a problem with the way you've
decorated this room. As a cat, I am colorblind, and this sends me into a rage.
You've created a RAGE ROOM for me here and I don't like it. I want you to change
it."

Instead of that confrontational approach, though, Garfield has chosen to steal
Jon's pipe. And that in turn angers Jon, but Jon decides to be aggressively
angry and yell at Garfield. So now instead of a calm conversation between two
respectful parties, you have two heated, angry individuals, each with a problem
and no direct line to solving it. The layered emotions here tell a story with
tight, focused brevity that would make Hemmingway weep. This is an entire drama
in just three panels, people.

But let's not be remiss and miss the humor of this situation. The absurdity of
it all. For certainly there is a reason the visual shorthand for drama includes
both a crying mask and a laughing mask. Comedy and tragedy complement each other
and meld together to create drama, tension, the height of humanity, the peak of
art that reflects back to us our own condition. And here, in its basis form, we
can laugh at this comic. Yes, comic! In which a cat smokes a pipe. Heh! When is
the last time you have seen such a thing in your life? Never, I presume. I
certainly never have.

The Greek Muse Thalia's presence is strong in this work of art here. Comedy, it
is comedy! And if you look at the structure again, you'll see this perfect form
of thirds works magically for the tranmission of yes, yes, a joke! A joke is as
old as time. Even cavemen told jokes, and the joke here is that Jon has lost his
pipe, or he thinks he has. But lo and behold, it is the cat Garfield who has the
pipe. Surprise, surprise! The cat is smoking! Again, the transition from setup
to punchline takes place between the second and third panels.

But make no mistake, the comic is more than just a comic. Yes it is funny. Of
course it is. It is operating at the height of sophisticated humor on par with
any of Shakespeare's piercing wit. On the one hand, Garfield the comic, with
Jon the man. Humor is art. The other hand, Garfield comic with Jon the man
stirring, no, riveting. Drama, as with everything, it is tension and release.
Tension and release.

A cycle.

I keep returning to this idea because it is, it is so omnipresent. Yes, you
could, and yes, I have done this on more than one occasion. You could print this
comic strip on a giant piece of paper. The dimensions would be something like 34
inches by 11 inches. Now tape the ends together with the comic facing inward.
Stick your head in the middle of this Garfield comic loop and read. Start at the
first panel. Jon is reading the newspaper. He feels for something on the end
table. Second panel. He sets the newspaper down. Something is not right. "Now
where could my pipe be?" he thinks. And then the payoff. The third panel.
Garfield has Jon's pipe and is smoking it.

But aha-ha! The paper is in a loop around your head. So that you can see that
once again Jon is in his seat reading the paper. And so on, and so on. You could
literally read the comic strip for eternity. I spent many a relaxing Sunday
afternoon reading this strip over and over.

I'm reminded of the Portugese death carvings which always begin and end with the
same scrawled image. So this idea of repitition, and the beginning being the
end, and the end being the beginning, it's not new. It is an ageless tradition
among the best storytellers humanity has ever offered. And I'm not wrong to
include cartoonist Jim Davis in that exulted set for this particular strip
alone.

I'm not foolish enough to deny that great art is subjective, divisive even, and
that some people see this Garfield comic and shrug with no real reaction, but I
will say that I believe everyone in the world should see it. At the very least,
see it. You should all see it. Read it. Spend some time with it. Spend an hour
reading it. What's an hour? Yes you could watch some television program. You
could play some fast-paced video games or computer games, yes you could do all
those things, but it's just an hour.

And if you give this strip a chance, if you look into Jon Arbuckle's eyes, if
you look into Jon Arbuckle's soul, you might find that you'll really be looking
into your own soul. It's self discovery. That is what I'm talking about here.
You have the opportunity, the possibility. It could change you. Don't be afraid.

You know, just last week I was eating lunch near the municipal court, like I do
every Thursday, and there was a plumbing man. A plumbing van parked out in
front, a, and a man, a, a plumber would step out from the court and retrieve
something from his van every so often. A few times this happened. I thought
nothing of it. Just a plumber doing some work at the municipal court. But then
he came out and looked through his van, and it was clear. He couldn't find
something. I noticed and thought, "Well, that's sort of similar to the Garfield
comic in a way." Someone looks for something, can't find it.

But yes, that probably happens billions of times a day around the world. But
then this plumber put his hands on his hips. Then he scratched his head, and he
said aloud, "Now where could my pipe wrench be?" *Gasp*. Well at this I leaped
off the bench, sandwich still in hand, and I rushed over. I shouted, "What was
that you said?"

He looked at me and said, "What? I can't find my pipe wrench."

And I said, "No. No, no. Say it, like, how you just said it."

He scratched his head and repeated, "Now where could my pipe wrench be?"

I slapped him on the back and said, "Garfield!" He looked so confused, so I
said it again. Then I said, "Your orange cat took it." Heh, he-heh, I laughed
and laughed. And he smiled and went back into the court room.

I walked away, knowing that the plumber and I, two complete strangers, bonded
over this Garfield comic. You see, life imitates art and becomes a common
ground. I have a feeling that if I see this plumber again, we'll be sharing
stories like two old friends, because we've been united by art. We have a common
love for Jim Davis and his characters, his writings. The humor, the drama, the,
that rascal Garfield the cat.

Oh, and by the way, if you're wondering what I was having for lunch that day, it
was a ham sandwich with an apple and potato chips in a bag. I had a soda as
well.

I think it's important to view The Pipe Strip in philosophical terms. We've
touched briefly on the notion of existentialism. That theme is very prevalent in
this strip. Garfield is, in fact, a modern existential antihero. But if Garfield
embodies the bewilderment of a meaningless life, what is Jon? What are the
telltale signs that informs Jon's philosophical standpoint, his approach, what
style of thinking he represents?

Jon is depicted as being grounded in the material world, a world of things. He
is surrounded by objects, and he touches these objects. He interacts with them.
The newspaper, the end table, the chair, his clothes, all these physical things
make up Jon's world. In some sense, even his cat Garfield is an object to him, a
thing.

The first ideology that comes to mind when thinking of objects in the tangible
world is pragmatism. Is Jon Arbuckle a pragmatist? His beliefs stem from a
useful, coherent view of his environment. A sort of cause and effect
understanding of his world that helps him A, deduce that his pipe is missing,
and B, catch his cat Garfield using the pipe. This kind of empirical and logical
thinking lends credence to the idea that Jon is indeed a pragmatist, although it
is hard to entirely ignore the rest of the Garfield comic canon.

While Garfield is consistently anarchic, and embraces the chaos and absurdidty
of life, Jon Arbuckle exhibits an erratic, unpredictable mix of philosophical
behaviors. At times he is borderline delusional. An idealist. An almost
slap-happy version of Don Quixote. Other moments, he is rigid, nearly to the
point of being obsessive, somewhat like a structuralist. And certainly has
streaks of sarcasm and negativity that might classify him as a skeptic.

But isn't there some universal truth in this approach? How can any one man, how
can Jon Arbuckle be just one thing? How can any of us be just one thing? We're
an amalgamation of ideas and emotions, conducts and functions, thoughts and
feelings. Jon Arbuckle may very well inhabit tenets of nearly every major
philosophical tract known to man.

We all might.

Characters are reduced to make them recognizable. Definable. A story needs a
good guy. A story needs a bad guy. But rarely is one person defined in such
black and white terms. Even Garfield, with all his bad behavior, Machiavellian
motivation, and general ne'er-do-well attitude, can be kind and thoughtful. You
just have to find that rare strip.

Speaking philosophically about the entire Garfield franchise, it's an incredibly
accurate depiction of life. Its bold lines and bright colors are merely a
facade, a, a red herring, a lie. This cartoon is not a cartoon at all. It is not
caricature. It is not caricature despite adopting caricature as its visual
style and tone.

But I don't really like to speak in broad, sweeping generalizations about
Garfield.

The comic has been running for over thirty years. To try and boil that all down
is just, well, it's impossible. I think the only way, and any historian worth
his salt will agree with me, is to look at individual moments, isolated
instances, single comic strips. Can I discuss this one strip in the context of
the entire run of Garfield? Yes, I'd do that, just as a film historian might
analyze one movie in relation to the history of all movies, or a war enthusiast
might look at a single battle's impact on an entire war.

The Pipe Strip is just an instance in the lives of Jon and Garfield. Perhaps Jon
is not a pragmatist at all. Let's look at this again. Maybe Jon is exhibiting
the traits of a rationalist thinker. His question, "Now where could my pipe be?"
is a clue that his though process stems from the early rationalist questions
posed by René Descartes. The well-known quote, "I think, therefore I am,"
attributed to Descartes is applicable.

Another close look at the strip and we see that Jim Davis chose to draw Jon
thinking his question, "Now where could my pipe be?" Jon does not speak this
question aloud, so Jim Davis is also exploring the mind-body duality. Jon's
quesion operates on the level of a literal question, but it also examines the
nature of our reality. Jim Davis' epistemological approach tells us something
about the human condition. Jon's thoughts remain the focal point of this strip.

The comic is quite literally centered around his though, "Now where could my
pipe be?" This is reality. This is where cognition, and the power and function
of the mind take over. As Plato believe, the body is just a shell for Jon
Arbuckle. Yes, he can use his physical body to read his paper, or cross his
legs, but these inputs of touch, sight, hearing, *et cetera*, these senses are
the triggers of the mind, as we see here, the mind is something greater. It is
the originator of ideas, and ideas are forever, immortal.

Immortality through thought, a, a major theme in literature and philosophy. And
isn't that what Mr. Jim Davis, himself, has achieved? Will he live forever?

The universe will continue to spread and spread outward, and entropy will turn
chaotic infinity into a homogenous controlled system. This will take billions of
years, and in that time humans will push technology to heights we can't imagine.
We'll explore and inhabit space, and occupy more and more of the universe, just
as time allowed our ancestors to multiply in numbers and populate more and more
of the Earth.

And as the specific people come and go, their physical bodies will be born, and
grow, and die, but their thoughts will remain. And Jim Davis' comics, his
glorious Garfield comics are recorded ideas of his that will still be here.

Even when the Earth is no longer inhabitable, and humanity has long since moved
away to bigger planets, they'll carry with them a record, a record we all keep.
Mark my words. And look at what we've started, What is, what is the internet?
What is the online world, if not a record, never-ending feed of ideas,
immortal ideas, forever placed in the aether of dualism.

What is an idea? Where does it live? How does it manifest itself? Can it live
forever? Will it live forever outside of these physical husks of ours, our
bodies?

Jon Arbuckle and Garfield started merely as thoughts, but they've become so much
more. That old cliché rings true. They've taken on a life of their own.

And life may not be what we think.

Life brings to mind a beating heart, breathing lungs, blinking eyes, but the
real life is in our imaginations. And who better embodies the definition of
imagination if not a simple man? A cartoonist, who puts his ideas to paper so
that they may live on, that our childrn, and our children's children, and their
children's children's children can access the wealth of ideas that have
accumulated thus far. They will plug themselves into an information grid and
they will have access.

They will read every Garfield comic. 80,000 years from now a child will see
simple Jon Arbuckle reading a newspaper. He will feel around for something, but
that something is not there. He will lift his head and think, "Now where could
my pipe be?" and Garfield will be smoking the pipe. And Jon will yell,
"Garfield!" and what then? 80,000 years from now? The child reading this comic
will smile, and that smile will transcend space, and time, and the physical
limitations of this existence, whatever it may be, however many dimensions
exist.

There will always be Garfield, and there will always be its creator, Jim Davis.


> IT IS THROUGH ART, AND THROUGH ART ONLY, THAT WE CAN REALIZE OUR PERFECTION.

-Oscar Wilde


### LASAGNA CAT

### FATALFARM
