This is a transcript of the Pipe Strip Analysis Video (PSAV) as it "should" be.
Many imperfections in Barrymore's speech are ignored (e.g. stuttering over the
word "epistemological").

This transcript heavily abuses commas, and mainly uses them to indicate pauses
in Barrymore's speech pattern. To simplify the formatting, the use of colons,
semicolons, em dashes, and parantheses is limited. Incomplete sentences are
common, as often is the case when it comes to oration.

---

07/27/1978

Jim Davis tribute set to the entire original motion picture score of "Kundun" by
Philip Glass featuring the philosophical musings of John Blyth Barrymore.

Lasagna Cat
Tributes to Jim Davis

Philip Glass
Kundun: The Motion Picture Soundtrack

[1:19](https://youtu.be/NAh9oLs67Cw?t=1m19s)
When I was 18, 18 years old, I saw for the first time in my life, I saw a vision
of clarity. I saw a comic strip, a 3-panel comic strip, that, though simple as
it seemed, changed me. Changed my being. Changed who I am. Made me who I am.
Enlightened me.

[1:45](https://youtu.be/NAh9oLs67Cw?t=1m45s)
The strip, Garfield. The comic strip was new, no more than maybe a month and a
half since inception, since coming into existence. And there it was before me in
print, I saw it. A comic strip. What was it called? Garfield.

[2:03](https://youtu.be/NAh9oLs67Cw?t=2m03s)
The story here is of a man, a plain man. He is Jon, but he is more than that. I
will get to this later, but first let us just say that he is Jon, a plain man.
And then there is a cat, Garfield. This is the nature of the world here. When I
see the world, the, the, politics, the future, the, the satellites in space, and
the people who put them there. You can look at everything as a man and a cat.
Two beings, in harmony, and at war.

[2:34](https://youtu.be/NAh9oLs67Cw?t=2m34s)
So this strip I saw about this man, Jon, and the cat, Garfield, you see, yes
hmmm, it, it is about everything. This little comic is, oh, lo' and behold not
so little anymore.

[2:50](https://youtu.be/NAh9oLs67Cw?t=2m50s)
So yes, when I was 18, I saw this comic. And it hit me all at once, it's, it's
power. I clipped it and every day I looked at it and I said, "Okay, let me look
at this here. What is this doing to me. Why is this so powerful?" Jon Arbuckle,
he sits here, legs crossed, comfortable in his home, and he reads his newspaper.
The news of the world, perhaps. And then he extends his fingers, lightly,
delicately, he taps his fingers on an end table and he feels for something. What
is it? It is something he needs, but it is not there.

[2:32](https://youtu.be/NAh9oLs67Cw?t=2m32s)
Then he looks up, slightly cockeyed, and he thinks. His newspaper in his lap
now, and he thinks this, "Now where could my pipe be?" This, I always come to
this, because I was a young man. I'm older now, and I still don't have the
secrets, the answers, so this question still rings true. Jon looks up and he
thinks, "Now where could my pipe be?" And then it happens, you see it, you see,
it's almost like divine intervention. Suddenly, it is there, and it overpowers
you! A cat is smoking a pipe. It is the man's pipe, it's Jon's pipe. But the
cat, this cat Garfield is smoking the pipe.

And from afar, and from someplace near, but not clear. Near, but not clear. The
man calls out. Jon calls out. He is shocked. "Garfield!" he shouts. Garfield,
the cat's name.

But, let's take a step back. Let us examine this from all sides, all
perspectives. And when I first came across this comic strip, I was at my
father's house. The newspaper had arrived and I picked it up for him, and
brought it inside. I organized his sections for him and, yes, the comic strip
section fell out from somewhere in the middle. Landed on the kitchen floor. I
picked up the paper pages and saw up somewhere near the top of this strip. Just
like Jon, I too was wearing an aquamarine shirt. So I thought, "Ah, interesting.
I'll have to see to this later."

I snipped out the little comic and held onto it. Five days later I reexamined,
and it gripped me. I needed to find out more about this. The information I had
was minimal, but enough. An orange cat named Garfield. Okay, that seemed to be
the linchpin of this whole operation. Yes, another clue. A signature in the
bottom right corner. A man's name, Jim Davis. Yes, I am on to it for sure.

So, one, Garfield, orange cat. And two, Jim Davis, the creator of this cat. And
that curiously plain man. I did not know at the time that this name was Jon. The
strip, you see, had no mention of this man's name, and I'd never seen it before.
But I had these clues. Jim Davis. Garfield. And then I saw more. I spotted the
tiny copyright mark in the upper left corner. Copyright 1978 to, what is this,
copyright belongs to a PAWS, INC.

I used the local library and mail services to track down the information I was
looking for. Jim Davis, a cartoonist, created a comic strip about a cat,
Garfield. And a man, Jon Arbuckle. Well from that point on I made sure I read
the Garfield comic strips, but as I read each one, as each day passed, the
strips seemed to resonate with me less and less.

I sent letters to PAWS, INC. Long letters. Pages upon pages, asking if Mr. Jim
Davis could somehow publish just the one comic over and over again. It would be
meditative, I wrote. The strength of that. Could you imagine!

But, no response.

The strips lost their power, and eventually I stopped reading, but, I did not
want my perceptions diluted so I vowed to read The Pipe Strip over and over
again. That is what I call it. The Pipe Strip.

The Pipe Strip.

Everything about it is perfect. I can only describe it as a miracle of creation.
Something came together. The elements aligned. It is like the comets, the cosmic
orchestra that, is up there over your head. The immense, enormous void is
working all for one thing, to tell you one thing. Gas and rock and purity and,
nothing. I will say this. When I see The Pipe Strip, and I mean every time I
look at the lines, the colors, the shapes that make up the 3-panel comic, I see
perfection.

Do I find perfection in many things? Some things, I would say. Some things are
perfect. And this is one of them.

I can look at the little tuft of hair on Jon Arbuckle's head. It is the perfect
shade. The purple pipe in Garfield's mouth. How could a mere mortal even make
this?

I have a theory, about Jim Davis. After copious research, and yes, of course,
now we have the internet, and this information is all readily available, but,
Jim Davis. He used his life experiences to influence his comic. Like I mentioned
before, none of them seemed to have the weight of the pipe strip. But you have
to wonder about the man who was able to even just once create the form. A
literally flawless execution of art. Brilliance, just isn't a word.

I think there is a spiritual element at work.

I have seen my share of bad times, and, when you have something, well, it's
just, emotions and neurons in your brain, but, something tells you that it's the
truth. Truth's radiant light. Garfield the cat?

Neurons in my brain, it's, it's harmony you see. Jon and Garfield. It's truly
harmony, like a continuous, looping, everlasting harmony. The lavender chair,
the brown end table, the salmon colored wall, the forest green carpet, and
Garfield is hunched, perched, perhaps with a pipe stuck firmly between his
jowls. His tail curls around.

It's more than shapes, too, because, I, okay, stay with me. I have done this
experiment several times. You take the strip. You trace only the basic elements.
You can do anything! You can simplify the shapes down to just blobs, just
outlines, but it still makes sense. You can replace the blobs with magazine
cutouts of other things. Replace Jon Arbuckle with a car parked in a driveway
sideways. Cut that out of a magazine. Stick it in. Replace him there in the
second panel with a, a food processor. Okay, and then we put a picture of the
planet in the third panel over Garfield.

It still works.

These are universal proportions. I don't know how best to explain why it works.
I have studied The Pipe Strip and analyzed Jon and Garfield's proportions
against several universal mathematical constants: e, pi, the golden ratio, the
Feigenbaum constants, and so on. And it's surprising, scary even, how things
align.

You can take just tiny pieces of The Pipe Strip, for instance, take Jon's elbow
in the second panel. Take that and project that over Jon's entire shape in the
second panel and you'll see a near perfect Fibonacci sequence emerge. It's eerie
to me. It makes you wonder if you're in the presence of a deity, if there is
some larger hand at work.

There is no doubt in my mind that Jim Davis is a smart man. Jim Davis is capable
of anything, to me. He is remarkable, but this is so far beyond that. I think we
might see that this work of art is revered and respected in years to come. Jim
Davis is possibly a new master of the craft, a, a genius of the eye. They very
well may say the same things about Jim Davis in 500 years that we say about the
great philosophical and artistic masters from centuries ago.

Jim Davis is a modern-day Socrates, or da Vinci, mixing both striking visual
beauty with classical, daring, unheard of intellect. Look, he combines these
things to make profoundly simple expressions.

This strip is his masterpiece. The Pipe Strip is his masterpiece. And it is a
masterpiece and a marvel.

I often look at Garfield's particular pose in this strip. He is poised and
statuesque, and his cat stare is reminiscent of the fiery gazes often found in
religous iconography. But still his eyes are playful, lying somewhere between
the solemn father's expression in Rembrandt's "Return of the Prodigal Son," and
the coy smirk of da Vinci's "St. John the Baptist." His ears stick up,
signifying a peaked readiness. It's as if he could at any moment pounce. He is,
after all, a close relative and descendent of the mighty jungle cats of Africa
that could leap after prey.

You can see the power drawn into Garfield's hindquarters, powerful haunches
indeed.

The third panel. Now I'm just saying this now. This, this is just coming to me
now. The third panel of The Pipe Strip is essentially a microcosm for the entire
strip itself. All the power dynamics, the struggle for superiority, right? Who
has the pipe? Where is the pipe? All of that is drawn, built, layered into
Garfield's iconic pose here.

You can see it in the curl of his tail. Garfield's ear whiskers stick up on end.
The smoke billows upward, drawing the eye upward, increasing scope. I'm just
amazed, really, that after 33 years of reading and analyzing the same comic
strip, I'm able to find new dimensions. It's a testament to the work.

For six years I delved into tobacco research, because, can a cat smoke? This is
a metaphyscial question. Yes, can any cat smoke? Do we know? Can just Garfield
smoke? The research says no. Nicotine poisoning can kill animals, especially
household pets. All it takes is the nicotine found in as little as a single
cigarette. Surely Jon's pipe holds a substantial amount of tobacco, and it is
true that pets living in the homes of smokers are nearly twenty five percent
more likely to develop some form of cancer, most likely due to secondhand smoke.

But these are facts of smoking and its tolls on our world, but after visiting
two tobacco processing plants in Virginia, and the Philip Morris cigarette
manufacturing facility, I came no closer to cracking the meaning.

I was looking for any insight. A detective of a homicide case has to look at
every angle. So I'm always taking apart The Pipe Strip. I have focused on every
minutia, every detail of this strip. Jon Arbuckle's clothing. I have replicas. I
am an expert in textiles, so you see this smoking thing was a hang-up for me.

What was the statement here? Until, this is key. This is the breakthrough. The
pipe is not a pipe, really. Obviously there is symbolism at work here. I saw
that from the beginning, and I looked at the literal aspects of the strip to
gain insight into the metaphors at play.

I worked at a newspaper printing press for eighteen months in the late 1980s. I
was learning the literal to inform the gestural. The subliteral. The in between.
Jon reading his newspaper means so much more than just Jon reading the
newspaper. But how could you ever hope to decipher the puzzle without knowing
everything there is to know about newspapers?

Okay. For example, Jon holds his paper up with his left hand, thumb gripping the
interior. I learned that this particular grip here is the newspaper grip of
nineteenth century aristocrats, and this aristocrat grip was a point of
contention that influenced the decision to move forward with prohibition in the
United States in the early twentieth century.

So Jon's hand position is much more than that. It is, it is a comment on class
war and the resulting reactionary culture. But I didn't know about the
aristocratic newspaper grip until I came across some microfiche archives at the
printing press. It's about information. You have to take it apart.

And the breakthrough on the smoking cat came late, just eight years ago,
actually. "Smoking cat" is an industry term. It's what the smoking industry
calls a tattle-tale teenager who tells on his friends after they've all tried
smoking for the first time, and is actually a foreign translation, a
bastardization of the term "smoking rat," but the phrase was confused when
secret documents went back and forth between China and America.

These documents are still secret, and the only reason I know about the term is
because I know a man, my friend, uh, let's call him Timothy. Yeah, yes it's a
fake name for his protection. Timothy worked for Philip Morris for sixteen
years. He had seen the documents. When he told me, it was an "aha!" moment. And
he said, "But how? How could this cartoonist, Jim Davis, know about this obscure
term from the mid-seventies used exclusively by a few cigarette companies.

This is still a mystery to me, but I connect the dots by noting Jim Davis'
childhood experiences on a farm. He must have seen something. What could it be?

Timothy went on to tell me that there was one particular smoking cat. A boy
from, yes, Indiana. A boy named Ernie Barguckle, who became a thorn in the side
of the tobacco companies for a couple years. He did more than tattle to his
parents. He and his family took legal action, and they eventually received a
huge settlement payout.

But that name is too similar. Ernie Barguckle. Jon Arbuckle. Jim Davis must have
used this, but there's more here. Ernie Barguckle spent nearly half of that
settlement money on experimental medical procedures to cure his... impotence. He
was impotent.

So, he was a smoking cat with a, a, a metaphorical pipe that did not work. Are
you starting to see the layers here? This is exciting stuff! You start to get a
whole picture here and it informs the work. It's, it's just remarkable. Jim
Davis took these raw ideas, these pieces, and transformed them into smart social
commentary that is also rasvishingly beautiful.

I have cried. I have cried. I have cried. I have cried, cried over this piece.
It just gets into my soul. I've tried to explain this to people. I have the
newspaper articles about Ernie Barguckle. People have fought me on this. They
don't see it, or they are close-minded. How could a comic strip about a cat
smoking a pipe mean any more than that?

But it is more, and when I feel spiritual or start to think existentially, I
still see this comic. Here is something from 1981 that I wrote in thinking about
the implications of this strip. This is just an excerpt here. There is more
before and after but this part is the essence to me. If a comic about a cat
smoking a pipe can be the only thing in the universe, them maybe this is the
strongest evidence for that.

[John Blyth Barrymore pulls a white sheet of paper out from his inside left
breast pocket, frantically unfolds it, firmly grips it, and begins reading from
it.]

Many of you say, "Oh, but I am not blind. I have never been blind," ... But when
you truly see you will understand just how truly blind you once were to even
think it right to say you were __not__ blind! What does as blind man see??

- Blackness
- Darkness
- Blankness
- Black Darkness
- Dark Blankness

--> The ABSENCE OF THINGS

__Quite literally__-> __No__ thing... No things. NOTHING... Nothings. So, you see
nothing, and I bring you into the light. __A cat has your pipe__. You've been
blind.

DO YOU UNDERSTAND THIS?

\*The cat has your pipe.

You can't fully immerse yourself. You don't have the light! You don't have the
radiance, the radical light, the radically radiant life of truth, and truth's
belonging love and nature of light and loving truthful radiance. So don't be
bold and make bold statements. I know of you. The cat has your pipe. THE CAT.
HAS. YOUR. PIPE.

Remember that.

[WIP]
